hey welcome back everyone losland
montgomery reporting for duty
china history podcast episode 262.
part four this time of yet another
patented chp mini-series in the making
this time featuring an overview of the
history of the thai chinese people
we're only riding a horse and admiring
these flowers so to speak
no deep sea diver suit required for this
alexander pope wrote in 1709 quote
a little learning is a dangerous thing
end quote
but he wasn't referring to chinese
history i'm sure where
if i may humbly say a little learning is
much better than
no learning at all so i hope you're
enjoying this series up to now
the story keeps getting better i assure
you
like all the histories of the worldwide
chinese diaspora
and especially in southeast asia there's
a lot of compelling and delightful
history there to appreciate
and this is just a little of it we'll
focus today on the events of this
tumultuous period that i'm sure all of
us are already quite familiar with
this involves the well-known societal
and national
earthquakes that started happening in
china right about mid-century
that unbeknownst to those living at that
time would still reverberate into the
2020s
two and a half centuries later last time
we finished off with king rama the first
overthrowing tuxen the great and this
first chakri dynasty king
got to be the one to usher in the 19th
century
so not to belabor this point but again
britain
the netherlands france and others well
they're gonna have
the time of their lives exploiting that
military technology gap between
themselves
and the nations stretching from the
china seas to the bay of bengal
and though siam famously never gets
colonized to the extent that their
neighbors did
they still got bullied by the european
powers of the day and
later on by the japanese even in our
trying times no nation likes to get
bullied by more powerful states it was
the same back then
so if life deals you a handful of lemons
try turning them into lemonade
that's what happened in the case of siam
we saw last episode how king rama iii
signed the bernie treaty june 1826
which essentially yeah yeah yeah the
british and
promised to open the door to free trade
and let them
in and run amok just like in china
the treaty sorted things out with
britain regarding the siam
malay border but as far as
busting the kingdom opened a free trade
well by the mid-1850s
the east india company in their final
years
started to wonder what happened to all
that free trade negotiated in the bernie
treaty
king rama iii had held them off at the
pass
skillfully delaying the inevitable
whilst
buying time for the kingdom he
instituted a tax farming system that put
many
chaosua and chaomong ethnic thai chinese
elites with a lot of resources at their
disposal
well they were put to good use making
this new
government revenue generating system
work and later on
i'm going to come back to this tax
farming system
so the siam royal court felt secure that
when the day
came where they had to finally open the
kingdom up to free trade
and all that royal trade monopoly money
that they got to
gorge themselves on for so long got
siphoned off to the british and
other foreign traders well their losses
would be
covered by the new tax farming revenues
and that day when the british put their
foot down
finally did come as they all knew it
would and the king of siam
ruling in bangkok was rama iv king
mankut my fellow american will remember
this king as the one portrayed by the
immortal yule brenner in the king and i
and the one tasked on behalf of her
majesty's government with making this
whole free trade thing happen
was none other than sir john bowering a
well-known name to anyone who
uses the jordan mtr station in yamate
bao ring street a nice shortcut to
temple street
so king mangkut the fourth ruler of the
chakri dynasty he reigned 1851-1868
that's contemporaneous with the xi'an
fung and tongja
emperors over in the qing empire john
bowring was serving at the time as not
only the
newly minted governor of hong kong the
fourth one
he also acted as plenipotentiary and
superintendent of british trade
in china with responsibility among other
places
for siam and when he showed up in april
1855 with two british warships
and all that that implied king mongkut
rama iv he signed the borrowing treaty
that among other unsavory things for the
kingdom
opened the country up to free trade with
customs duties pegged at
and agreed upon rate the old days were
gone forever when
swarms of these chinese junks sailed
back and forth between the ports of siam
and china providing the lifeblood of the
kingdom's merchant trade economy
they had become no competition for the
european cargo ships with their
massive size and all their new
technologies
it totally changed the shipping paradigm
in the south seas
and then after forcing this first
unequal treaty on the kingdom of siam
bowering sailed off into the sunset back
to hong kong
and for an encore he led the campaign
against the qing empire in the euro war
better known as the second opium war
1856 to 1860
culminating of course in the pillage of
the summer palace
and the treaty of peking which among
other things
none good for china legalize chinese
immigration
no more trying to bend the rules at your
own risk
let me quote something interesting from
one of the main sources i've been
referring to in this series the history
of the thai chinese
by geoffrey singh and pimpraphae
bisalputra
this is what john bowering wrote of his
observations about the chinese
when he was in bangkok for the signing
of the treaty which bears his name
quote it is estimated that in the
kingdom of siam
there are more than a million and a half
chinese settlers
in the city of bangkok alone there are
supposed to be
two hundred thousand in fact all the
active business appears to be in their
hands nine out of ten
of the floating bazaars which cover for
miles the two banks of the menon
are occupied by chinamen very many of
them are married to siamese women
for a china woman scarcely ever leaves
her country
but the children are invariably educated
to the chinese type
the chinese not only occupied the
busiest and largest bazaars but their
trading habits descend to the very
lowest articles of barter and hundreds
of chinese boats are vibrating up and
down the river
calling it every house penetrating every
creek
supplying all articles of food
raiment and whatever ministers to the
daily wants of life
as a community they are nearly isolated
from the siamese
though professing for the most part the
same religion
they have their own temples and carry on
their worship of buddha
not according to the usages of the
priests of siam
the signs over their warehouses shops
and houses
are all written in chinese in the
chinese language they carry on all their
correspondence
nor do i remember an example of a
being able to write
though they almost all speak the siamese
language
end quote one of the upshots of all this
free trade was that
it gave a nice big jolt to the economy
the borrowing treaty turned siamese
trade as they had always known it
on its head but commerce and the kingdom
was able to adapt to the new times quite
quickly
and now being part of the british
inspired free trade zone that extended
from the trading ports of europe to the
entirety of southeast asia and india
what followed was prosperity the likes
of which had never been seen before
and king mongkut early on looked in the
direction of china
and saw a once great nation
badly in need of a major rejuvenation as
soon as he became king
he wasted no time showing the qing
empire the
obeisance they demanded a very
respectable treasure trove of gifts were
laden on board these
junks to show the manchu ching empire
king mangkhud meant business by the time
the vessels
arrived safely in guangzhou the daoguang
emperor had died and they were still in
the official mourning period
all that trouble for nothing so the
mission went nowhere
the king of siam tried again the
following year
this time with the xianfeng emperor on
the dragon throne
1853 at last this mission from siam
was able to offer tribute to the qing
emperor and
enjoy being the beneficiary of political
favor with the royal court
and in return for this solid they did
for the ching ruler
they were presented with the usual
bounty that the qing court always
bestowed on these missions
and when this delegation from siam
loaded down with gifts
were starting to make their way back to
guangzhou
for the voyage home they got assaulted
and robbed on route
somewhere in china and everything was
stolen
and after word of this incident made its
way back to bangkok
king rama iv wasn't amused and it got
him thinking about how
far china had fallen clearly under the
domination of the foreigners
unable to provide basic law and order in
their own country
they had become this mere shell of their
former greatness
the frock long ministry in bangkok had
to do some
major readjustments in their foreign
policy particularly with respect to
relations with
foreign powers and with china and the
siam court
put their heads together and discussed
what was more advantageous
to please the qing emperor or please the
europeans
and besides with all this chaos in china
during the 1850s and 60s
the whole matter of sending tribute
missions became a moot point and
all planned tribute missions were put on
hold until
finally in 1882 under king rama v
tribute trade missions to china were
just done away with altogether
after all what did it say about the
siamese monarchy
bowing down to the dunya bing fu the
sick man of asia
starting with rama iv king mangkhut the
siamese political winds
started blowing in the direction of the
european powers
well as it often is during times of
great chaos in china
going back to at least the lawn the
invasions from the north of the
so-called
five barbarians 304 to 316
ce well it wasn't uncommon for massive
swaths of the population to just pick up
and migrate to another
hopefully safer part of china in the
case of the haka people
during this horrible 4th century
disturbance in the north
they got up and left this ancestral
homeland
mostly and by the time they stopped
running they were all the way in
guangdong
fujian and various centers between
jiangxi and guicho
back then 4th century buying passage on
a boat and leaving the country for safer
harbors
wasn't an option yet but now
mid 19th century it was and
breakthroughs in navigation technologies
shipbuilding and most important with
steam-powered vessels
coming of age in the 1870s now it was
easy and convenient to pack up one's
belongings and
begin anew in a far off land and by this
time in history 19th century
so many chinese pioneer immigrants had
made that one-way voyage already
when this mightiest wave ever of chinese
immigration began to happen
these fortunate immigrants had the
benefit of a mature
cultural safety net already in place to
give them comfort
remember rama iii in the 1820s selling
all those tax farming concessions and
all these highest value highest volume
commodities
well like the taxman and george's song
off revolver
the crown was always on the prowl for
new things to tax
and when the so-called chinese vices
most notably opium
started getting regulated and taxed well
let's just say
even though it had been outlawed since
the time of rama the first
opium was still widely used mostly but
not exclusively
within the chinese community illegal it
may have been but opium use was
widespread enough whereby it was sitting
there just asking to be taxed
in time almost half of state revenues
will come from opium and
tax revenue raised from all these
so-called
chinese vices
and all these immigrant laborers now
coming over in waves especially after
1882 when the bangkok passenger steamer
company began regular service between
bangkok and shantou
well by this time there were about 8 400
dochu chinese
a year taking that ride by the turn of
the century
almost 50 000 a year were following in
the wake of these dyochos who had come
before them
all this economic growth that had
happened after toxin the great
created a kind of dynamic whereby
no matter how much labor was imported
from china it was never enough
sugarcane after being introduced to the
kingdom from china in 1810 had
become a major commodity in siam
and just as chinese sailed by the
thousands to cuba to work the sugarcane
fields
it was the same in siam pepper tin
all the kingdoms rich natural resources
bounty
all of these agricultural and mining
commodities
grown or dug out of the earth required a
lot of labor
and that insatiable demand became a
magnet for chinese immigrants
and as i said not just in thailand
hey in the five main linguistic groups
who mostly made up siam's ethnic chinese
if they embarked on their journey from
the port of shaman
they would seek out their fellow hawk
yen when they got to their destination
if it was summoned from meishen and
guangdong north of the
chaoshan region when they got to siam
they sought out their hakka kin if you
recall from past episodes between 1855
and 1867
the hakas and cantonese down in
guangdong province mostly
fought a very bloody and violent war
mandarin it was known as the tulkushyado
the bunti
hakka clan wars no one kept an accurate
count but
almost a million souls lost their lives
in this disturbance that lasted a dozen
years
this upheaval led to a mass exodus of
hakka
immigrants to all points in southeast
asia
and elsewhere the same with the
cantonese from the pearl river delta
region
around guangzhou what the dyochos were
to siam
the cantonese were to america and to the
local people
in both countries these particular
immigrants became the face of all
chinese in their
respective new lands and the hainanese
who
geographically were the ones closest to
siam
and it probably wouldn't surprise you if
i told you they they sort of stuck
together too
and formed their own communities in siam
because they were relative latecomers to
chinese emigration to siam
by the time the hainanese got there in
any numbers
the best places to farm or do business
were already taken
so one of the things that sort of
distinguished
the immigrants from hainan was that
they were more than willing to wander
into the hinterlands of the kingdom and
settle there
making a life and achieving a different
kind of success than their
fellow chinese in the cities and
established coastal areas
and with hainan having the kind of
climate it did
surviving in the mountains and jungles
of siam
wasn't too much of a stretch for someone
born and raised on the
tropical island of hainan so they were
particularly instrumental in opening up
the
parts of the siamese countryside that
hadn't been developed yet
and when regular steamer service started
up between hainan and bangkok
well you can imagine that helped to
boost immigration from this group of
ethnic chinese
the hawk yen on the other hand they by
and large stuck to the major
trading ports of the kingdom prior to
the destruction of ayutia by the
burmese in 1767 they had made up the
largest linguistic group of
chinese immigrants in the capital the
most
celebrated and well-known stories of the
thai chinese concern these
these huashong immigrants the ones who
were
pillars of the chinese communities they
represented and made
fortunes in commerce and industry
compared to these luminaries there
aren't as many stories of these
countless numbers of huakong or chinese
laborers who came here
by and large they came married a local
siamese woman
and then their offspring one or two
generations later
where none the wiser as far as their
chinese heritage went
like it is with a lot of people
everywhere not all chinese and siam
lived apart from the general populace
the european languages of my
grandparents didn't even last a
generation after they came here before
we had all melted into the proverbial
american pot
prior to about mid-century the 1850s
the huaxong those ethnic chinese
involved in business
they made up the largest share of the
immigrant population
but during the second half of the 19th
century overwhelmingly
the immigrants arriving and
unprecedented numbers were made up of
laborers
and just like the taisan chinese and
their neighbors and the five surrounding
counties did in the usa
the chinese laborers who came to siam
looking for work
also built railroads and thusly helped
usher in
all the modernization and advancement
that railroads invariably brought with
them in their wake
we're familiar with all the natural and
man-made disasters of 19th century china
that caused immigration to spike
that was true in a lot of cases but in
siam
most of these newly arrived laborers
were just were just looking to
make as much money as they could in this
booming siamese economy
and like so many others their end game
was to one day return to their village
and live happily ever after living off
the income earned during their overseas
adventure
with so many immigrants landing on
siamese shores and
like i said joining the communities
where they felt most comfortable
of course people who spoke their primary
language this kind of social dynamic was
about as
fertile and environment as you could get
for the emergence of secret societies
that grew to manage criminal
organizations that
regulated all the good things in life
that the government outlawed
and with the most important thing in
life at stake
that being money sparks began to fly
more often than usual
especially between the two linguistic
groups with the most numerous members
that being the diochus and the hawk yen
who each had their own secret societies
that newly arrived immigrants would
gravitate to
and these chinese secret societies or
brotherhoods and siam
i guess when it came right down to it
they offered pretty much the same menu
of products and services to their
members
as any benevolent association or secret
society in the west might provide
but in siam they also took care of the
vice trade
including opium the most profitable vice
of them all most of the secret societies
began as
innocuous self-help organizations for
the newly arrived
replacing the family as the center of
their lives
then they became like a labor union
until they devolved into the
criminal organizations we all know and
love you see
going back to the ayutia kingdom the
government had sort of
adopted a policy that called for the
chinese to handle the chinese
and so with these secret societies
that was just one more manifestation of
the chinese looking after their own
and many would argue also prey on their
own
and if you think inter-gang rivalry got
heated with so much money at stake
you guessed correct the violence meted
out by these secret societies got so bad
it became a major headache for the king
of siam and his government
despite an edict from rama iii
prohibiting the buying and selling
there was still plenty of opium to go
around he had no more luck stamping out
the opium trade than his
luckless counterpart in the forbidden
city in beijing
and no one single linguistic group
dominated trade and distribution in
varying degrees
anyone who was willing to risk it all
could themselves get in the opium
business
by the time of rama the fourth king
mongkut he knew he couldn't beat city
hall
so he was the one who came up with the
idea to just
regulate opium he kept the prohibition
on using opium
enforced amongst the majority thai
populace
but as for the ethnic chinese and this
particular
chinese vice the crown sold off licenses
to grow
and produce opium exclusively for the
home market
that yielded a heck of a lot of revenue
for the treasury and at the same time
with the domestic market already well
served by
siamese organizations there was less
dependence on
traders in penang and elsewhere for a
supply
the foreign imported mud would have to
fight a price war with the
domestic siamese opium suppliers which
is a business model most merchants try
to avoid
the system wasn't perfect but it kept
the scourge under control
a description of the activities that the
secret societies and siam were involved
in would be familiar to anyone who has
studied the
hong kong triads and the tongues of
new york and san francisco chinatowns
many aspects were
common to all secret societies and
brotherhoods the siamese government
always lived in constant dread of secret
societies colluding with foreigners
against the ruling class the chakri
dynasty had a peculiar relationship
with their ethnic chinese subjects
on the one hand they benefited greatly
from their industry and hard work and
serving the monarchy
and the country but ever since the fall
of toxin
who showed so much favor on the chinese
particularly the dochus
being one himself on his father's side
the chakri rulers couldn't bring
themselves to fully trust them
the secret societies were everywhere but
mostly prevalent up and down the malay
peninsula
many of these gangs had their start in
penang and crept northward
opening up branches across the border
and siam
in chinese they were called gomsi or
gunsu
and mandarin the siamese called them
angi and they were everywhere i'd love
to regale you with all kinds of
interesting facts about them but it
seems
no matter where we all come from for
those of us familiar with
organized crime in 19th century siam
they control the same rackets as their
fellow parasites all over the world
organizing labor breaking strikes
construction
muscle labor gambling booze and opium
and prostitution too i assure you the
stories are surely fascinating about the
secret societies of siam
generally speaking there were three
things about the
secret societies that made the monarchy
uneasy
first of all they were in general
anti-monarchy and
anti-establishment they were loyal to
their brotherhood
not to the king before the shinhai
revolution in china
sanyat yat-sen himself had made a few
visits to bangkok
and his supporters there were many sun
had even
set up a branch of the tongmang hue
there and he had famously referred to
the overseas chinese as quote
the mother of the revolution both
sons organization and the angi
shared a lot in common anti-monarchical
feelings among them which
did not endear them to the chakri
dynasty
so the angi became a long-term problem
for the siamese government who will
time and again try different ways to
rein them in
just enough to not let their illegal
activities
cause any hardship for the government in
the next episode we'll look at how these
any start to become a real threat to the
government
and a menace to society regardless of
the dangers they represented the kings
of siam would often find uses for these
hangi
in the end the government had a nifty
idea about how to handle them
we'll get to that in part six perhaps
if you've had too many sleepless nights
tossing and turning
wondering how you can help support this
long-running family program and
keep it from falling into oblivion you
can subscribe to my patreon at
patreon.com
backslash china history podcast three
bucks
two and a half euros 27 norwegian krona
early access to episodes have a bunch of
wacky stories already posted for my 35
years in the biz
flooding the shelves of the u.s mass
retail market with
made in china stuff if i put these
stories on this rss feed
might be defrocked or if you just want
to toss a few shillings in my worn paper
cup
i keep a chp begging bowl 24 7 at paypal
dot me backslash china history podcast
if you didn't have a pen handy go to the
episode at tcup.media
i wrote it all down for you okay that's
it for this time this is laszlo
montgomery still going strong after more
than a decade
in this unforgiving and competitive
history podcasting industry
you think it's easy competing with the
likes of dan carlin
ray harris jr and the history chicks
it's rough out there
please please me and don't walk away
just yet
let's make a date to meet back in a mere
two weeks time for what's already
shaping up to be another exciting
episode of the china history podcast
but actually if you're a patreon
subscriber you wouldn't have to wait two
weeks
take care everyone